README.md, before:

<a href="https://aimeos.org/">
    <img src="https://aimeos.org/fileadmin/template/icons/logo.png" alt="Aimeos logo" title="Aimeos" align="right" height="60" />
</a>

# Aimeos Laravel package
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/aimeos/aimeos-laravel.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/aimeos/aimeos-laravel)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/aimeos/aimeos-laravel/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github)](https://coveralls.io/github/aimeos/aimeos-laravel?branch=master)
[![Scrutinizer Code Quality](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/aimeos/aimeos-laravel/badges/quality-score.png?b=master)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/aimeos/aimeos-laravel/?branch=master)
[![HHVM Status](http://hhvm.h4cc.de/badge/aimeos/aimeos-laravel.svg)](http://hhvm.h4cc.de/package/aimeos/aimeos-laravel)

The repository contains the web shop package for Laravel 5
integrating the Aimeos e-commerce library into Laravel. The package provides
controllers for e.g. faceted filter, product lists and detail views, for
searching products as well as baskets and the checkout process. A full set of
pages including routing is also available for a quick start.

[![Aimeos Laravel demo](https://aimeos.org/fileadmin/user_upload/laravel-demo.jpg)](http://laravel.demo.aimeos.org/)

## Table of content

- [Installation/Update](#installation-or-update)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [Admin](#admin)
- [Hints](#hints)
- [License](#license)
- [Links](#links)

## Installation or update

If you want to **upgrade between major versions**, please have a look into the
[upgrade guide](https://aimeos.org/docs/Laravel/Upgrade)!

The Aimeos Laravel web shop package is a composer based library that can be
installed easiest by using [Composer](https://getcomposer.org). Add these lines
to your composer.json of your Laravel project:

```
    "prefer-stable": true,
    "minimum-stability": "dev",
    "require": {
        "aimeos/aimeos-laravel": "~2016.01",
        ...
    },
    "scripts": {
        ...
        "post-update-cmd": [
            "php artisan vendor:publish --tag=public --force",
            "php artisan vendor:publish",
            "php artisan migrate",
            ...
        ]
    }
```

Afterwards, install the Aimeos shop package using

`composer update`


**Caution:** Make sure that the **database is set up and it is configured** in your
`config/database.php` or `.env` file (depending on the Laravel version). Sometimes,
the .env files are not available in the Laravel application and you will get exceptions
that the connection to the database failed. In that case, add the database credentials
to the **resource/db section of your ./config/shop.php** file too! 

Next, the Aimeos provider class must be added to the `providers` array of the
`config/app.php` file so the application and Laravel command task will work:

```
return array(
    'providers' => array(
        ...
        Aimeos\Shop\ShopServiceProvider::class,
    ),
);
```

In the last step you must now execute these artisan commands to get a working
or updated Aimeos installation:

```
php artisan vendor:publish
php artisan migrate
php artisan aimeos:setup --option=setup/default/demo:1
php artisan aimeos:cache
```

In a production environment or if you don't want that the demo data gets
installed, leave out the `--option=setup/default/demo:1` option.

## Setup

To see all components and get everything working, you also need to adapt your
main Blade template in `resources/views/app.blade.php`. This is a working
example using the [Twitter bootstrap CSS framework](http://getbootstrap.com/):

```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" class="no-js">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8">
	<meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
	<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
@yield('aimeos_header')
	<title>Aimeos on Laravel</title>

	<link href='//fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Roboto:400,300' rel='stylesheet' type='text/css'>
    <link href="//maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/3.3.1/css/bootstrap.min.css" rel="stylesheet">
@yield('aimeos_styles')
	<link href="/css/app.css" rel="stylesheet">
</head>
<body>
	<nav class="navbar navbar-default">
@yield('aimeos_head')
	<div class="container-fluid">
			<div class="navbar-header">
				<button type="button" class="navbar-toggle collapsed" data-toggle="collapse" data-target="#bs-example-navbar-collapse-1">
					<span class="sr-only">Toggle Navigation</span>
					<span class="icon-bar"></span>
					<span class="icon-bar"></span>
					<span class="icon-bar"></span>
				</button>
				<a class="navbar-brand" href="#">Laravel</a>
			</div>

			<div class="collapse navbar-collapse" id="bs-example-navbar-collapse-1">
				<ul class="nav navbar-nav">
					<li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
				</ul>

				<ul class="nav navbar-nav navbar-right">
					@if (Auth::guest())
						<li><a href="/auth/login">Login</a></li>
						<li><a href="/auth/register">Register</a></li>
					@else
						<li class="dropdown">
							<a href="#" class="dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" role="button" aria-expanded="false">{{ Auth::user()->name }} <span class="caret"></span></a>
							<ul class="dropdown-menu" role="menu">
								<li><a href="/auth/logout">Logout</a></li>
							</ul>
						</li>
					@endif
				</ul>
			</div>
		</div>
	</nav>
    <div class="col-xs-12">
@yield('aimeos_nav')
@yield('aimeos_stage')
@yield('aimeos_body')
@yield('aimeos_aside')
@yield('content')
	</div>

	<!-- Scripts -->
	<script src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.3/jquery.min.js"></script>
	<script src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/modernizr/2.8.3/modernizr.min.js"></script>
	<script src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/twitter-bootstrap/3.3.1/js/bootstrap.min.js"></script>
@yield('aimeos_scripts')
	</body>
</html>
```

**Note:** Since **Laravel 5.0** CSRF protection is enabled by default but for the
```/confirm``` and ```/update``` routes, you may have to [disable CSRF](http://laravel.com/docs/5.1/routing#csrf-excluding-uris)
if one of the payment providers is sending data via POST requests.

Afterwards, you should clear the Laravel cache files. Otherwise, you might get
an exception due to old cached data.

```php artisan cache:clear```

Then, you should be able to call the catalog list page in your browser. For a
quick start, you can use the integrated web server that is available since PHP 5.4.
Simply execute this command in the base directory of your application:

```php -S 127.0.0.1:8000 -t public```

Point your browser to the list page of the shop using:

http://127.0.0.1:8000/index.php/list

## Admin

To use the admin interface, you have to set up Laravel authentication first.
Please follow the [Laravel documentation](https://laravel.com/docs/5.1/authentication)
to create the necessary code. Test if your authentication setup works before you
continue.

Create an admin account for your Laravel application so you will be able to log
into the Aimeos admin interface:

```php artisan aimeos:account <email> --admin```

The e-mail address is the user name for login and the account will work for the
frontend too. To protect the new account, the command will ask you for a password.

As a last step, you need to extend the ```boot()``` method of your
```App\Providers\AuthServiceProvider``` class and add the lines to define how
authorization for "admin" is checked:

```
public function boot(GateContract $gate)
{
	// ...

	$gate->define('admin', function($user) {
	    return app( '\Aimeos\Shop\Base\Support' )->checkGroup( $user->id, 'admin' );
	});
}
```

If you've still started the internal PHP web server (```php -S 127.0.0.1:8000 -t public```)
you should now open this URL in your browser:

http://127.0.0.1:8000/index.php/admin

Enter the e-mail address and the password of the newly created user and press "Login".
If you don't get redirected to the admin interface (that depends on the authentication
code you've created according to the Laravel documentation), point your browser to the
```/admin``` URL again.

**Caution:** Make sure that you aren't already logged in as a non-admin user! In this
case, login won't work because Laravel requires to log out first.

## Hints

To simplify development, you should configure to use no content cache. You can
do this in the `config/shop.php` file of your Laravel application by adding
these lines at the bottom:

```
    'madmin' => array(
        'cache' => array(
            'manager' => array(
                'name' => 'None',
            ),
        ),
    ),
```

## License

The Aimeos Laravel package is licensed under the terms of the MIT license and
is available for free.

## Links

* [Web site](https://aimeos.org/Laravel)
* [Documentation](https://aimeos.org/docs/Laravel)
* [Help](https://aimeos.org/help/laravel-package-f18/)
* [Issue tracker](https://github.com/aimeos/aimeos-laravel/issues)
* [Composer packages](https://packagist.org/packages/aimeos/aimeos-laravel)
* [Source code](https://github.com/aimeos/aimeos-laravel)

Commit message:

Added location of auth service provider

README.md, after:

<a href="https://aimeos.org/">
    <img src="https://aimeos.org/fileadmin/template/icons/logo.png" alt="Aimeos logo" title="Aimeos" align="right" height="60" />
</a>

# Aimeos Laravel package
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/aimeos/aimeos-laravel.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/aimeos/aimeos-laravel)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/aimeos/aimeos-laravel/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github)](https://coveralls.io/github/aimeos/aimeos-laravel?branch=master)
[![Scrutinizer Code Quality](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/aimeos/aimeos-laravel/badges/quality-score.png?b=master)](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/aimeos/aimeos-laravel/?branch=master)
[![HHVM Status](http://hhvm.h4cc.de/badge/aimeos/aimeos-laravel.svg)](http://hhvm.h4cc.de/package/aimeos/aimeos-laravel)

The repository contains the web shop package for Laravel 5
integrating the Aimeos e-commerce library into Laravel. The package provides
controllers for e.g. faceted filter, product lists and detail views, for
searching products as well as baskets and the checkout process. A full set of
pages including routing is also available for a quick start.

[![Aimeos Laravel demo](https://aimeos.org/fileadmin/user_upload/laravel-demo.jpg)](http://laravel.demo.aimeos.org/)

## Table of content

- [Installation/Update](#installation-or-update)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [Admin](#admin)
- [Hints](#hints)
- [License](#license)
- [Links](#links)

## Installation or update

If you want to **upgrade between major versions**, please have a look into the
[upgrade guide](https://aimeos.org/docs/Laravel/Upgrade)!

The Aimeos Laravel web shop package is a composer based library that can be
installed easiest by using [Composer](https://getcomposer.org). Add these lines
to your composer.json of your Laravel project:

```
    "prefer-stable": true,
    "minimum-stability": "dev",
    "require": {
        "aimeos/aimeos-laravel": "~2016.01",
        ...
    },
    "scripts": {
        ...
        "post-update-cmd": [
            "php artisan vendor:publish --tag=public --force",
            "php artisan vendor:publish",
            "php artisan migrate",
            ...
        ]
    }
```

Afterwards, install the Aimeos shop package using

`composer update`


**Caution:** Make sure that the **database is set up and it is configured** in your
`config/database.php` or `.env` file (depending on the Laravel version). Sometimes,
the .env files are not available in the Laravel application and you will get exceptions
that the connection to the database failed. In that case, add the database credentials
to the **resource/db section of your ./config/shop.php** file too! 

Next, the Aimeos provider class must be added to the `providers` array of the
`config/app.php` file so the application and Laravel command task will work:

```
return array(
    'providers' => array(
        ...
        Aimeos\Shop\ShopServiceProvider::class,
    ),
);
```

In the last step you must now execute these artisan commands to get a working
or updated Aimeos installation:

```
php artisan vendor:publish
php artisan migrate
php artisan aimeos:setup --option=setup/default/demo:1
php artisan aimeos:cache
```

In a production environment or if you don't want that the demo data gets
installed, leave out the `--option=setup/default/demo:1` option.

## Setup

To see all components and get everything working, you also need to adapt your
main Blade template in `resources/views/app.blade.php`. This is a working
example using the [Twitter bootstrap CSS framework](http://getbootstrap.com/):

```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" class="no-js">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8">
	<meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
	<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
@yield('aimeos_header')
	<title>Aimeos on Laravel</title>

	<link href='//fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Roboto:400,300' rel='stylesheet' type='text/css'>
    <link href="//maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/3.3.1/css/bootstrap.min.css" rel="stylesheet">
@yield('aimeos_styles')
	<link href="/css/app.css" rel="stylesheet">
</head>
<body>
	<nav class="navbar navbar-default">
@yield('aimeos_head')
	<div class="container-fluid">
			<div class="navbar-header">
				<button type="button" class="navbar-toggle collapsed" data-toggle="collapse" data-target="#bs-example-navbar-collapse-1">
					<span class="sr-only">Toggle Navigation</span>
					<span class="icon-bar"></span>
					<span class="icon-bar"></span>
					<span class="icon-bar"></span>
				</button>
				<a class="navbar-brand" href="#">Laravel</a>
			</div>

			<div class="collapse navbar-collapse" id="bs-example-navbar-collapse-1">
				<ul class="nav navbar-nav">
					<li><a href="/">Home</a></li>
				</ul>

				<ul class="nav navbar-nav navbar-right">
					@if (Auth::guest())
						<li><a href="/auth/login">Login</a></li>
						<li><a href="/auth/register">Register</a></li>
					@else
						<li class="dropdown">
							<a href="#" class="dropdown-toggle" data-toggle="dropdown" role="button" aria-expanded="false">{{ Auth::user()->name }} <span class="caret"></span></a>
							<ul class="dropdown-menu" role="menu">
								<li><a href="/auth/logout">Logout</a></li>
							</ul>
						</li>
					@endif
				</ul>
			</div>
		</div>
	</nav>
    <div class="col-xs-12">
@yield('aimeos_nav')
@yield('aimeos_stage')
@yield('aimeos_body')
@yield('aimeos_aside')
@yield('content')
	</div>

	<!-- Scripts -->
	<script src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.1.3/jquery.min.js"></script>
	<script src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/modernizr/2.8.3/modernizr.min.js"></script>
	<script src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/twitter-bootstrap/3.3.1/js/bootstrap.min.js"></script>
@yield('aimeos_scripts')
	</body>
</html>
```

**Note:** Since **Laravel 5.0** CSRF protection is enabled by default but for the
```/confirm``` and ```/update``` routes, you may have to [disable CSRF](http://laravel.com/docs/5.1/routing#csrf-excluding-uris)
if one of the payment providers is sending data via POST requests.

Afterwards, you should clear the Laravel cache files. Otherwise, you might get
an exception due to old cached data.

```php artisan cache:clear```

Then, you should be able to call the catalog list page in your browser. For a
quick start, you can use the integrated web server that is available since PHP 5.4.
Simply execute this command in the base directory of your application:

```php -S 127.0.0.1:8000 -t public```

Point your browser to the list page of the shop using:

http://127.0.0.1:8000/index.php/list

## Admin

To use the admin interface, you have to set up Laravel authentication first.
Please follow the [Laravel documentation](https://laravel.com/docs/5.1/authentication)
to create the necessary code. Test if your authentication setup works before you
continue.

Create an admin account for your Laravel application so you will be able to log
into the Aimeos admin interface:

```php artisan aimeos:account <email> --admin```

The e-mail address is the user name for login and the account will work for the
frontend too. To protect the new account, the command will ask you for a password.

As a last step, you need to extend the ```boot()``` method of your
```App\Providers\AuthServiceProvider``` class and add the lines to define how
authorization for "admin" is checked in ```app/Providers/AuthServiceProvider.php```:

```
public function boot(GateContract $gate)
{
	// ...

	$gate->define('admin', function($user) {
	    return app( '\Aimeos\Shop\Base\Support' )->checkGroup( $user->id, 'admin' );
	});
}
```

If you've still started the internal PHP web server (```php -S 127.0.0.1:8000 -t public```)
you should now open this URL in your browser:

http://127.0.0.1:8000/index.php/admin

Enter the e-mail address and the password of the newly created user and press "Login".
If you don't get redirected to the admin interface (that depends on the authentication
code you've created according to the Laravel documentation), point your browser to the
```/admin``` URL again.

**Caution:** Make sure that you aren't already logged in as a non-admin user! In this
case, login won't work because Laravel requires to log out first.

## Hints

To simplify development, you should configure to use no content cache. You can
do this in the `config/shop.php` file of your Laravel application by adding
these lines at the bottom:

```
    'madmin' => array(
        'cache' => array(
            'manager' => array(
                'name' => 'None',
            ),
        ),
    ),
```

## License

The Aimeos Laravel package is licensed under the terms of the MIT license and
is available for free.

## Links

* [Web site](https://aimeos.org/Laravel)
* [Documentation](https://aimeos.org/docs/Laravel)
* [Help](https://aimeos.org/help/laravel-package-f18/)
* [Issue tracker](https://github.com/aimeos/aimeos-laravel/issues)
* [Composer packages](https://packagist.org/packages/aimeos/aimeos-laravel)
* [Source code](https://github.com/aimeos/aimeos-laravel)
